# Interactive winter energy use simulation for 'Burrowing depth mediates the extent of metabolic suppression in a soil-overwintering insect
Kurtis F. Turnbull, Jeremy N. McNeil, and Brent J. Sinclair
## Simulation description
We used VCO2-temperature relationships from empirical respirometry data (described in main manuscript) to predict hourly CO2 production for simulated prepupae acclimatized to the microclimate of three burrowing depths (i.e. 10, 20, or 30 cm). Briefly, we assumed a maximum dormancy duration of 1 August to 1 July in our simulation. We assumed prepupae were intially ‘unacclimiatized’ and used the VCO2-temperature relationship of newly-formed prepupae (i.e. baseline; described in main manuscript) from the start of dormancy to 1 October. Thereafter we used October, November, January, and May VCO2-temperature relationships for prepupae acclimatized at microclimates at either 10 or 30 cm (beginning on the first day of each of these months) to predict hourly CO2 production. Because body mass did not have an significant effect on VCO2 among field prepupae, we assumed the prepupae in our simulation were the overall average mass of those retrieved from the field (i.e. calculated from empirical body mass data; described in main manuscript). Using each of these VCO2-temperature relationships, we then predicted hourly CO2 production at three soil depths (i.e. 10, 20, or 30 cm below the surface) from empirical microclimate data we collected at our field site near Ilderton, Ontario from 1 August 2015 to 1 July 2016 (described in main mauscript). We calculated hourly O2 consumption from hourly CO2 production by assuming a respiratory quotient of 0.7 (i.e. lipid as fuel) because we detected a decline in lipids during dormancy in field prepupae (see main manuscript). We then calculated cumulative and hourly lipid consumption by assuming 2 L of O2 per gram of lipid.
## Initial assumptions
Our intial assumptions, and those presented in the main manuscript, are: a dormancy duration from 1 September to 1 June, two burrowing and two acclimatization depths at 10 and 30 cm, and an initial lipid conent of 73 mg. Each of these assumptions can be adjusted using the input panel to the left.
## Simulation validation
We validated our simulation against our empirical lipid content data by first estimating lipid remaining in our simulation by assuming an initial lipid content of 73 mg on 1 September (i.e. the upper 90th percental of lipid content in October), and subtracting the simulated amount of lipid consumed at each time point. We calculated the absolute error (i.e. absolute difference between simulated and individual empirical lipid content data) in October, November, January, and May for each simulated acclimatization VCO2-temperature relationship.
